<!-- Filename: Monitoring_Server_Health / Display title: Monitoring Server Health -->

Even if you have a fantastically optimised website, if the server that
it is hosted on is not performing well, it will not load well for your
visitors. Therefore it is recommended even if you are on shared hosting,
that you use one of the many systems which allow you to track uptime,
response time and ideally alert you in the event of problems.
[Pingdom](https://www.pingdom.com/) has a free trial that
does that for one site – ideal for keeping track of your site.

## Monitoring Server Health in Google Analytics

You can also view the server response time in Google Analytics and track
it over time. In this case we can see some significant increases in
response time (which would translate as the sites on the server loading
slowly) and also some significant improvements, which would result in a
better loading time. If you look at the chart over time, you should be
able to associate some of the lumps and bumps with things which have
happened – such as in this case moving to a faster hosting environment,
experiencing a Denial of Service attack, high load due to celebrity
sharing a site hosted on the server, and reducing load as high-use
clients are offloaded onto their own hosting servers.

![Sitespeed page timings](../../../en/images/performance/monitoring-site-speed.png)

It is also possible to view this data with a map overlay - showing you
which countries have problems with page load times.

![Sitespeed page timings](../../../en/images/performance/monitoring-site-speed-by-country.png)

This kind of insight can be helpful in identifying developing problems,
however you should enlist a server administrator if you are managing
your own servers, who can manage this using a purpose-built system such
as the open source [Nagios](https://www.nagios.org/) package.

## Site Performance Dashboard

Like the other metrics, there is also a pre-built Site Performance
Dashboard which you can drop into your Analytics account giving you all
the key information. You can also add widgets to these dashboards, and
tweak them to show in the format you prefer. They aren't set in stone.

![Site performance dashboard](../../../en/images/performance/performance-dashboard.png)
